Now we had our first little Ionic Angular application,
nothing too fancy in there but I hope you saw how we will generally work with Ionic, that we in the end
have a setup where I will explain in more detail how things are working together there, where we can
use these Ionic web components to build nice user interfaces.
Now Ionic hasn't always been about web components though. Historically with Ionic 1, Ionic 1 was all
about creating mobile apps with Angular 1 and Ionic 1 was released in 2013.
In the end what Ionic 1 did was it didn't create web components, that was possible back then, you couldn't
create your own HTML elements, browsers didn't support that but it used Angular 1 directives, custom
directives to essentially also give you custom components but custom Angular components in the end which
run only inside of Angular apps.
Now Ionic 2 continued this in 2016 by giving you the same for Angular 2 which was a brand new version of
Angular which is totally different to Angular 1, the two have basically nothing in common indeed. So
Ionic 2 gave you again Angular components, not web components, Angular components and again therefore,
you could only use Ionic 2 in Angular 2 applications.
Now there also was an Ionic 3 which basically added some new features, enhanced Ionic a little bit
but it was still focused on Angular, at that time Angular 4 was out but still Angular 4 despite the
name as you should know is just the same as Angular 2 in its core, as is Angular 7, 8 and so on, all these
new versions are simply named like this,
they're all based on Angular 2.
So we still could only build Angular Ionic apps there and the Ionic team decided that this would not
be optimal for the future because not all people are using Angular. You of course probably are,
otherwise you would not be taking this course but you could be using React or you could be using Vue
or no framework at all and maybe you want to use some Ionic components, maybe not even all of them but
some of them or you do want to use all of them because you do want to build a native mobile app with
Ionic, well then you were limited to Angular, with Ionic 4, you aren't anymore. Ionic 4 and
all the future versions of Ionic are based on web components and this is a browser specification that
allows you to add your own HTML elements that run totally independent from any web framework you
might be using.
So you're independent from Angular and so on because in the end, all you need here is Javascript,
these web components use Javascript under the hood and every browser supports Javascript and therefore
web components and Ionic 4 can be used with any framework, any web framework or no framework at
all if you want to and that is pretty cool.
Now also a word on the future of Ionic, in the past we had Ionic 2 and 3 and 1,
now we have Ionic 4 and we'll get a new version every six months but just as with Angular 5, 6, 7, 8 and
so on,
these new versions don't change everything,
there are small incremental enhancements where the majority will stay the same,
your knowledge you need will stay the same, only some enhancements are made, minor features are introduced
and all these changes will happen in a backward compatible way
so that you have loads of time of updating your app if needed
and often, you don't even need to update anything. So this is not like oh god, I got to learn something
new in six months,
you don't. This is the Ionic history and a brief look into its future and that is why Ionic 4 and
future versions of that is and will be the best versions of Ionic we've ever had because we got so much
flexibility with these versions.